191022

I've got a package that looks through and finds argument sentences, matching specific words inside a sentence, as well as categorising the word. This should be helpful.

I could attempt to assign weight to a rhetorical device, but I would require references to justify this weighting. Otherwise I could still highlight these in some manner.

The paper that the spacy library works from is located here: https://aclanthology.org/2007.sigdial-1.5/ and I've also saved it down. 
Essentially the paper is an analysis of opinion categories and links to a corpus of argumentation lexicon, and the package that I've found uses this as a basis.
After testing I can say that it is definitely picking up on some of the words, which could be useful.

Running over the test examples that were described within the repository, I created a dictionary to see if they were picked up correctly.
assessments 26
doubt 0
authority 0
emphasis 20
necessity 17
causation 2
generalization 2
structure 0
conditionals 4
inconsistency 14
possibility 10
wants 6
contrast 7
priority 6
difficulty 6
inyourshoes 3
rhetoricalquestion 0

Turns out they're not, as an argumentation contains another kind ie: (a doubt argument got picked up as a causation because it began with 'so').
Couple that with the singular reliance on a strange data type it may be worth investigating more argumentation mining methods, as this first example
is not only inaccurate, but will be hard to parse through correctly to fix inaccuracies.

To look up:
BERT, which stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers

Running with roberta-argument now https://huggingface.co/chkla/roberta-argument
and we've been able to get some interesting results

first of all the dataset that I was working with previously roberta-arg considers most of the sentences non-arguments, which I agree with for the most part.
the sentences do lack an actual argument on the whole. Rather, that previous library works off of identifying words only, and how they are utilised within sentences
so it may be an addition to this dataset.

Run in an article, divide up the sentences of the article. Discover what sentences contain arguments and then identify the particular words? 

This is the paper that is referenced: https://aclanthology.org/D18-1402/

The next step will be to compare against the Big_Data article set and see what we find.

So this is an intensive application as was Flair, I am testing it currently on snippets of
the articles.
roberta-argument specifies that it only considers and argument an argument if it contains a reason within the sentence.
So so far I haven't been able to identify an article with any arguments that fit that criteria... 

I have loaded in a section from an article: News and Advice on the worlds latest innovations
which reads:
"Another strand of criticism aimed at GPT-3 and other LLMs is that the results they produce 
often tend to display toxicity and reproduce ethnic, racial, and other bias. This really
 comes as no surprise, keeping in mind where the data used to train LLMs is coming from:
the data is all generated by people, and to a large extent it has been collected from the 
web. Unless corrective action is taken, its entirely expectable that LLMs will produce 
such output.Last but not least, LLMs take lots of resources to train and operate. Chomskys 
aphorism about GPT-3 is that ""its only achievement is to use up a lot of Californias
energy"". But Chomsky is not alone in pointing this out. In 2022, DeepMind published a 
paper, ""Training Compute-Optimal Large Language Models,"" in which analysts claim that 
training LLMs has been done with a deeply suboptimal use of compute."

which for sure contains arguments,
roberta-argument finds:
[' Unless corrective action is taken, its entirely expectable that LLMs will produce such output', 'ARGUMENT', 0.5767930150032043]]
which misses most of the point of the section, taking it out of all context, and has missed out on other sentences

Now here is the spacy_arguing_lexicon:

Argument lexicon: really
Label of lexicon: contrast
Sentence where lexicon occurs: This really comes as no surprise, keeping in mind where the data 
used to train LLMs is coming from: the data is all generated by people, and to a large extent it has been 
collected from the web

it's picked up on some more of the text but it's not been very good at giving it's reasoning...

Neither model seems particularly good in picking out argumentation... this may be a bit of a bust area
thinking it may be perhaps better to move on to another aspect of the nlp tasks